# Learn Kana

This is a minimalistic app that helps you learn Japanese kana - hiragana, katakana, and hentaigana (for those who really like the challenge). The app uses speech recognition API, but since it is still experimental and ill-suited for syllable recognition, there are some hacks involved (i. e. the app actually recognizes Chinese behind the scenes - wait, WHAT?!)

You can try the app here: https://learnkana.app. Just select the syllabary (hiragana, katakana or hentaigana), turn on the learning mode if you want (it adds syllables to the learning list one by one), and say the syllables out loud. If you don't know how it's pronounced, you can get a hint - just hover your cursor over the symbol. Some syllables are really tricky to recognize using the speech recognition API (I'm looking at you, RA, RI, RU, RE, and RO), so if the app is acting up (or you're just tired of yelling random syllables at your computer screen), you can enter the reading on your keyboard.

P. S. So why does this app use Chinese to teach you Japanese kana? Well, the speech recognition API is pretty good at recognizing phrases, not bad at recognizing words and just terrible when it comes to syllables. And what language has lots of one-syllable words? Well, that's Chinese! Sometimes it works great, sometimes... not so great, especially if Chinese doesn't have the consonant we need, like R. In the future I plan on switching the recognition language on the fly for every syllable to a language that has a short word with this syllable that the API can recognize.